8.8 D4C integration docs (#3247)
elastic/security-docs: docs/cloud-native-security/d4c-policy-guide.asciidoc

[[d4c-policy-guide]]
= Guide to container workload protection policies

To unlock the full functionality of the Defend for Containers (D4C integration), you'll need to understand its policy syntax. This will enable you to construct policies that precisely allow expected container behaviors and prevent unexpected behaviors – thereby hardening the security posture of your container workloads.

Policies consist of _Selectors_ and _Responses_. A given policy must contain at least one selector and one response. Currently, the system supports two types of selectors and responses: `file` and `process`.
Selectors define which system operations to match, and can include multiple conditions (grouped using a logical `AND`) to precisely select events. Responses define which actions to take when a system operation matches the conditions specified in the associated selector.

The default policies described on this page serve as examples for understanding D4C policies. Below that description, you will find an exhaustive glossary of selector conditions, and of response fields and actions.

[[d4c-default-policies]]
[discrete]
== Default policies:

> By default, the D4C integration includes two policies. They are designed to implement core container workload protection capabilities:

Reviewer: From the screenshot and description below, it actually doesn't look like there are two policies here. It looks like one integration policy (named `cloud_defend-1` in the image), which contains two _categories_ of settings (`allProcesses` and `executableChanges`).

I don't know if this is semantic hairsplitting or actually significant, but I kinda think it'd be confusing to someone familiar with how Elastic's other integrations and integration policies work. If we say "there are two policies," they'd probably be expecting two entirely separate policy types, or at least two separate policies of the same type, not a single policy.

Author: Thank you for this. Great example of a second pair of eyes coming in clutch.

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| Name | Description
| containerImageFullName | A list of container full image names to match on, for example: `docker.io/nginx`.
| containerImageName | A list of container image names to match on. For example: `nginx`.
| containerImageTag | A list of container image tags to match on. For example: `latest`.
| kubernetesClusterId | A list of Kubernetes cluster IDs to match on. For consistency with KSPM, the `kube-system` namespace's UID is used as a cluster ID.
| kubernetesClusterName | A list of Kubernetes cluster names to match on.
| kubernetesNamespace | A list of Kubernetes namespaces to match on.
| kubernetesPodName | A list of Kubernetes pod names to match on. Trailing wildcards supported.
| kubernetesPodLabel | A list of resource labels. Trailing wildcards supported (value only), for example: `key1:val*`.
|===

[discrete]
=== File-selector conditions
These conditions are available only for `file` selectors.

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| Name | Description
| operation | The list of system operations to match on. Options include `createExecutable`, `modifyExecutable`, `createFile`, `modifyFile`, `deleteFile`.

> | ignoreVolumeMounts | If set, ignores file operations on ALL volume mounts.

Reviewer 2: Made a slight style edit in case you typed "all" in caps to emphasize it:

```suggestion
| ignoreVolumeMounts | If set, ignores file operations on _all_ volume mounts.
```

| ignoreVolumeFiles | If set, ignores operations on file mounts only. For example: mounted files, `configMaps`, and secrets.

> | targetFilePath | A list of file paths to include. Paths are absolute and wildcards are supported. The * wildcard matches any sequence of characters within a single directory, while the ** wildcard matches any sequence of characters across multiple directories and subdirectories. Note: In order to ensure precise targeting of file integrity monitoring operations, a `TargetFilePath` is required whenever the `deleteFile`, `modifyFile`, or `createFile` operations are used within a selector.

Reviewer: The Note at the end should be a separate paragraph and formatted per Asciidoc, not just added to the end of another paragraph. Looks like maybe you were in the middle of doing that, since there's an empty `NOTE:` line below?

|===

NOTE: In order to ensure precise targeting of file integrity monitoring operations, a `TargetFilePath` is required whenever the `deleteFile`, `modifyFile`, or `createFile` operations are used within a selector.

[discrete]
=== Process-selector conditions
These conditions are available only for `process` selectors.

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| Name | Description
| operation | The list of system operations to match on. Options include `fork` and `exec`.
| processExecutable | A list of executables (full path included) to match on. For example: `/usr/bin/cat`. Wildcard support is same as targetFilePath above.
| processName | A list of process names (executable basename) to match on. For example: `bash`, `vi`, `cat`.

> | sessionLeaderInteractive | If set to true, will only match on interactive sessions (i.e. sessions with a controlling TTY).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| sessionLeaderInteractive | If set to `true`, will only match on interactive sessions (such as sessions with a controlling TTY).
```

|===

[discrete]
=== Response fields
A policy can include one or more responses. Each response is comprised of the following fields:

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| Field | Description
| match | An array of one or more selectors of the same type (`file` or `process`).
| exclude | Optional. An array of one or more selectors to use as exclusions to everything in `match`.

> | actions | An array of actions to perform when at least one `match` selector matches and none of the `exclude` selectors match. Options include `log`, `alert`, and `block`. See *Response actions*, below.

Reviewer: This isn't really how we handle cross-references, and also avoid "See" in favor of "Refer to," etc. But maybe you could just omit the reference, since the actions are immediately explained in the next section?
```suggestion
| actions | An array of actions to perform when at least one `match` selector matches and none of the `exclude` selectors match. Options include `log`, `alert`, and `block`.
```

|===

[discrete]
=== Response actions
D4C responses can include the following actions:

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| Action | Description

> | log | Sends events to the logs-cloud_defend.file-* data stream for file responses, and the logs-cloud_defend.process-* data stream for process responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| log | Sends events to the `logs-cloud_defend.file-*` data stream for file responses, and the `logs-cloud_defend.process-*` data stream for process responses.
```

| alert | Writes events (file or process) to the logs-cloud_defend.alerts-* data stream.

> | block | Prevents the system operation from proceeding. This blocking action happens prior to the execution of the event. It is required that the alert action be set if block is enabled. Note: Currently block is only supported on file operations. Process blocking coming soon!

Reviewer 2: Removed the last part since we don't normally promise future functionality in feature docs or release notes.
 
```suggestion
| block a| Prevents the system operation from proceeding. This blocking action happens prior to the execution of the event. It is required that the alert action be set if block is enabled. 

**Note:** Currently block is only supported on file operations. 
```

| kubernetesClusterName | A list of Kubernetes cluster names to match on.
| kubernetesNamespace | A list of Kubernetes namespaces to match on.
| kubernetesPodName | A list of Kubernetes pod names to match on. Trailing wildcards supported.
| kubernetesPodLabel | A list of resource labels. Trailing wildcards supported (value only), for example: `key1:val*`.
|===

[discrete]
=== File-selector conditions
These conditions are available only for `file` selectors.

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| Name | Description
| operation | The list of system operations to match on. Options include `createExecutable`, `modifyExecutable`, `createFile`, `modifyFile`, `deleteFile`.
| ignoreVolumeMounts | If set, ignores file operations on ALL volume mounts.
| ignoreVolumeFiles | If set, ignores operations on file mounts only. For example: mounted files, `configMaps`, and secrets.
| targetFilePath | A list of file paths to include. Paths are absolute and wildcards are supported. The * wildcard matches any sequence of characters within a single directory, while the ** wildcard matches any sequence of characters across multiple directories and subdirectories.

> |===

Reviewer 3: Please add the following note:

> A list of file paths to include. Paths are absolute and wildcards are supported. The * wildcard matches any sequence of characters within a single directory, while the ** wildcard matches any sequence of characters across multiple directories and subdirectories. Note: In order to ensure precise targeting of powerful FIM operations, TargetFilePath is a required selector condition whenever the `deleteFile`, `modifyFile`, or `createFile` operations are used within a selector.
